README.md, before:

# Technical Introduction into DIA
Welcome to the [DIAdata.org](https://diadata.org/) platform.
Financial data often lacks quality and its sources are unknown and intransparent.
Even in the (supposedly transparent) cryptocurrency world, many services do not disclose how they accumulate their data.

DIA is an ecosystem for open financial data in the decentralized smart contract ecosystem.
The target of DIA is to bring together data analysts, data providers and data users.
In general, DIA provides a reliable and verifiable bridge between off-chain data from various sources and on-chain smart contracts that can be used to build financial products on top of that data.

Here you can find the introduction to the structure of the system and first steps to contribute.

## DIA technical structure
DIA is setup as a hybrid system with off-chain components for storing and proceccing large amounts of data and on-chain components providing data sources for financial smart contracts.
Currently, Ethereum is used as smart contract plaform because of its widespread use and technical quality, but the DIA system is not limited to one blockchain technology.

### Centralized Backend
For collecting financial data, we use a centralized backend that runs collectors for all kinds of financial data.
All collected data is processed by a database setup consisting of a stream-oriented kafka instance and a key-value store for faster access of certain intermediate results.
These collectors are separated in different classes:

* Exchange Scrapers: These collect data from echanges for cryptocurrencies and other assets (like stocks, futures, and rare earth metals).
Every exchange scraper is run independently and is structured around the idea of `pairs` that are used to indicate the pair of assets that is used in a trade.
For example, a trade from Bitcoin to US-Dollar is stored under `BTCUSD`.
* Blockchain Scrapers: These scrapers are used to determine attributes of blockchains. The most prominent attribute is the circulating supply of a cryptocurrency, for which various scrapers already exist.
Depending on the expected update rate of a blockchain, these scrapers update the backend periodically about their data.
Blockchain scrapers are run as docker contaiers that can be managed independently.
Often, these collect Gigabytes of data over time (they are dealing with ever-growing blockchains) and thus should be managed in a separate way not directly baked in the database executable.
* Quotation Scrapers: They are used to collect official quotations from central trusted providers.
The first quotations in our database are daily exchange rates from the European Central Bank (ECB) against various international currencies.

### Decentralized Financial Data
All these data points can be used in Ethereum Smart Contracts.
We provide oracles to use this information in any smart contract.
The correctness of oracle data can always be verified by monitoring our off-chain realtime API and the data published in the oracle.

## API access
To access the API, visit TODO.

## How to contribute
DIA is open for anyone to contribute and we always welcome pull requests.
We also provide tasks on [Gitcoin](https://gitcoin.co/), a collaboration tool focused on cryptocurrency projects.

## More information
Visit [docs.DIAdata.org](https://docs.diadata.org/) to get detailed technical information on how to run and develop DIA software yourself.

Commit message:

more details on supply methodology, links to Readme

README.md, after:

# Technical Introduction into DIA
Welcome to the [DIAdata.org](https://diadata.org/) platform.
Financial data often lacks quality and its sources are unknown and intransparent.
Even in the (supposedly transparent) cryptocurrency world, many services do not disclose how they accumulate their data.

DIA is an ecosystem for open financial data in the decentralized smart contract ecosystem.
The target of DIA is to bring together data analysts, data providers and data users.
In general, DIA provides a reliable and verifiable bridge between off-chain data from various sources and on-chain smart contracts that can be used to build financial products on top of that data.

Here you can find the introduction to the structure of the system and first steps to contribute.

## DIA technical structure
DIA is setup as a hybrid system with off-chain components for storing and proceccing large amounts of data and on-chain components providing data sources for financial smart contracts.
Currently, Ethereum is used as smart contract plaform because of its widespread use and technical quality, but the DIA system is not limited to one blockchain technology.

### Centralized Backend
For collecting financial data, we use a centralized backend that runs collectors for all kinds of financial data.
All collected data is processed by a database setup consisting of a stream-oriented kafka instance and a key-value store for faster access of certain intermediate results.
These collectors are separated in different classes:

* Exchange Scrapers: These collect data from echanges for cryptocurrencies and other assets (like stocks, futures, and rare earth metals).
Every exchange scraper is run independently and is structured around the idea of `pairs` that are used to indicate the pair of assets that is used in a trade.
For example, a trade from Bitcoin to US-Dollar is stored under `BTCUSD`.
* Blockchain Scrapers: These scrapers are used to determine attributes of blockchains. The most prominent attribute is the circulating supply of a cryptocurrency, for which various scrapers already exist.
Depending on the expected update rate of a blockchain, these scrapers update the backend periodically about their data.
Blockchain scrapers are run as docker contaiers that can be managed independently.
Often, these collect Gigabytes of data over time (they are dealing with ever-growing blockchains) and thus should be managed in a separate way not directly baked in the database executable.
* Quotation Scrapers: They are used to collect official quotations from central trusted providers.
The first quotations in our database are daily exchange rates from the European Central Bank (ECB) against various international currencies.

### Decentralized Financial Data
All these data points can be used in Ethereum Smart Contracts.
We provide oracles to use this information in any smart contract.
The correctness of oracle data can always be verified by monitoring our off-chain realtime API and the data published in the oracle.

## Methodology Documentation
Currently, DIA collects several classes of data.
Because of the very different nature of these classes, separate documentation exists for each of these different use cases.

* [Exchange Scrapers](methodology/ExchangePrices.md) are the components that get trade data from various exchanges and use these trades to contruct average prices.
* [Supply Scrapers](methodology/SupplyNumbers.md) are used to determine circulating supply numbers for cryptocurrency assets.
This information varies for each currency and is highly specific.

## API access
To access the API, visit TODO.

## How to contribute
DIA is open for anyone to contribute and we always welcome pull requests.
We also provide tasks on [Gitcoin](https://gitcoin.co/), a collaboration tool focused on cryptocurrency projects.

## More information
Visit [docs.DIAdata.org](https://docs.diadata.org/) to get detailed technical information on how to run and develop DIA software yourself.
